With our basic validation in place, let's now find out how we can check for equality in our passwords
and for that, I of course want to check my confirm password field,
so in my sign up view, I'm talking about this field with the name confirm password.
So let's go back to auth.js to that route and let's add a new check for something in the body
of the request,
so basically for the confirm password field here. Now in there, I want to check if that is equal to my
password
and how can I achieve this?
Well I could do it by adding a custom validator here, that custom validator which receives a value and
where I then extract the request
with this destructuring syntax
and if they're in there, I check if the value of confirm password is equal to the value of request
body password
and this is why you might need access to the request object
because here I need to extract the password,
so this field value from the request body in my custom validator. And now I can check if they are equal or
to be precise, if they are not equal and if they are not equal,
well then I want to throw a new error where I say passwords have to match, like this
and otherwise I return true.
And this is how we could check for equality of two fields,
I'm checking whether my confirm password is equal to my other password. With that if I now save
this and I do enter a valid email address, this one is already taken but I'm not validating for this with
this package
so this should be fine.
I do enter a valid password and I do enter
let's say another theoretically valid password, though we're not checking for length or anything like
that
on confirm password so anything would do it there.
But the important thing is this is a password that differs from this one,
you can make this really clear by adding more characters.
If I now hit sign up, I get passwords have to match,
so this is now working.
If on the other hand, I take an e-mail address
but again that's not validated by this package
but then I try valid equal passwords,
then I only get my e-mail thing but the validation with that validation package succeeded.
Now it's also worth noting that I did not add the other password validation like isLength and isAlphanumeric
to the confirm password
even though that applies to the confirm password too of course
but why did I not add it?
Because we're already checking it on this main password
and then we're checking for equality,
so we implicitly have this check here on confirm password too.
I don't care if confirm password is long enough because it has to equal that password and that password
is checked for its length,
so I got this in place here and therefore I am protected against any errors on this site.
So this is now how we could check for password or any field equality that you might need in your application.